# NeuroLearn
**SIDE NOTE: THIS IS STILL UNDER DEVELOPMENT. THIS IS A PRERELEASE**

## AI Collaboration Acknowledgement
* Frontend: The UI was generated by AI
* Backend: The Backend was 100% Human written, this includes all Neural Networks, manual backpropagation, data processing pipelines. AI was, however, used to help debug, and for guidance towards library choices.

## Current State
* As of right now, the app is deployed and functional. It is deployed at this website: https://neurolearnapp.streamlit.app/
* However, there are many improvements to make. Here are some future improvements I will make:
  * Increase training on Model to get better weights (Especially on the Cloze Model)
  * Remove duplicate images
  * Build another Neural Network to determine if a sentence is worth clozing or not
  * (Maybe) Using the Vocab from my Cloze Model to train my MLP model

## How it Works (as of rn)
1. First, we grab the images and texts off the PDF or PPTX using their native libraries (Fitz and python-pptx respectively)
2. We run the cloze function all the grabbed text, and the IO function on all the grabbed Images (refer to the following section for more info on this)
3. The cloze function returns all the clozed sentences, and the IO function returns all the words
4. We put the IO words into the CSV, and the image that is associated with it can be determined by the index of the word in the list. The cloze sentences are just thrown in.
5. The temp_dir, the CSV, and the original lecture material (I should prob remove dis one), are zipped together and sent

## How the Neural Networks Works
### Cloze Model
This is by far the most complex model I undertook in building. Here is how it works:
1. We apply a simple character level tokenization on all words in the model
2. Then, we grab every unique consecutive combination of 4 letters, and store them as an array called vocab
3. Using void tricks, we can replace the character tokenization with the index of all their subword embeddings
4. Then we can run a simple 1D CNN, with a Binary Cross Entropy Loss. The output shape is Batch_Size, 200. 200 is the max sentence length. More info on the model for nerds:
   a. The layer types and sizes are: Embedding -> 1D Convolution -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> 1D Convolution -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> 1D Convolution -> Linear -> Sigmoid -> BCE Loss

### IO Models
There are two models here. A 2D CNN, and an MLP. The 2D CNN analyze whether an image makes for a good Cloze image or not, while the MLP analyze whether the word is good to Occlude from the image or not.
Info for nerds:
2D CNN: 2D Convolution -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> MaxPooling -> 2D Convolution -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> MaxPooling -> 2D Convolution -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> MaxPooling -> Linear -> LayerNorm -> ReLU -> Linear
MLP: Embedding -> Linear -> BatchNorm -> LeakyReLU -> Linear -> BatchNorm -> LeakyReLU -> Linear -> BatchNorm -> LeakyReLU -> Linear

### Explanation for Model Choice
If you are familiar with ML, you might be confused onto why someone would write 2 explicit implementations of a CNN, and Micrograd Style MLP. There are no hardware or good reasons for why I did this. I simply did this for my learning. I believe that I can only claim to fully understand a Neural Network once I've written it explicitly once in NumPy. It's also a very fun excercise. As for why I wrote the MLP in a Micrograd Style, I wanted to practice my OOP skills, so yeah. This was just done for learning purpose, nothing performance wise.
